---
layout: post
title: Routine
---

Sometime in the 80s and 90s I played keyboard in a band and spent my free time writing songs. As hard as I tried, nothing much came of it so I decided to change focus, go back to school and eventually started a family.

Roughly 5 years ago, we moved and I came across all my old music equipment - tucked away in the basement. I immediately felt a surge of excitement as a few memories flashed in front of me and I quickly decided it might be fun to finish what I'd started - to write/produce pop songs.

For the past 5 years then, I've done just that. I maintain a full time job and have a family so I have to find creative ways to work toward this but I think I can have an idea for a routine that should work out well. Maybe you'll find it valuable as well. The ultimate key for my routine is to spend enough time writing and producing. The routine consists of daily, weekly, monthly and annual work horizons.

### Daily

   - Idea generation and expansion.
   - Write and arrange around a riffy phrase, song or song section every day.
   - Light. Easy. Going for quantity. Don't think about it too much. Finish. Finish. Finish.
   - Vertical slices, not much in terms of a song but deeper dive in terms of a section.
   - Can be spontaneous musically driven ideas with no higher purpose in mind but to sound clever or profressional.
   - Get comfortable working with an objective or goal in mind. Ultimately, this is where I need to be.
   - What am I trying to say and then setting out to say it. Review and then consider working to convey a message in your musical ideas.
   - My objective is to get better at
     - listening and reacting in a intutive way &hellip; and then get better at
	 - listening and reacting in the _context_ of a larger goal.

### Weekly

   - Finish a complete song draft.
   - Review daily ideas, pick one to build out.
   - Now, start with why. Think about the message, who are you talking to and what do you want to say to them.
   - Try to stay true to the original intent, or, to _some_ intent.
   - This work is on a a slightly broader, higher horizon then the daily work.
   - Again, finish finish finish!
   - Take the entire week.
   - Focus a bit on the _whole_ each day.
   - Avoid being too prescriptive but consdier focussing on a section each day
     - Monday=Hook
	 - Tuesday=Verse
	 - Wednesday=Lift
	 - Thursday=Core
	 - Friday=Intro, Transitions, Outtro
   - Doesn't need to be perfect - but should be more deeply considered w/r/t a simple daily idea.

### Monthly

  - Pick from one of the weekly drafts
  - Finish something for _real._ I don't have _demo_ mixing chops nor can I sing but I need to set aside time to take a wholistic view of the song and react to it.
  - More production.
  - Precursor to actual studio time. These are the songs I would shop around to demo singers.

### Annually

  - Finish an album. 12  months and I should have 12 songs!

OK, well, I think that's it for now. If you have any questions or thoughts, and please feel free to comment in my [issue tracker](https://github.com/TheSongwritingExperimentWebsites/com.thesongwritingexperiment.blog/issues)! Otherwise, hope I've inspired you to join me!
